that dinosaur discovery the scientific
world is still reeling from the
discovery of actual Tyrannosaurus Rex
cells and soft tissue on earth last week
at a Montana excavation site it's
tremendous find that scientists say
could unlock the mysteries of extinction
and could one day lead to real-life
dinosaur cloning well maybe well North
Carolina State University professor Mary
Schweitzer is the leader of the
discovery team that found these
extraordinary specimens she joins us now
from Raleigh with more nice to see you
professor thank you for having me so
tell us how significant a discovery is
this well it has a potential to be very
significant but for right now until we
do further analyses I think all we can
say is it's really cool well professor
as I understand it this this was sort of
an accidental discovery you had to split
one of the bones in half because it was
simply too big to get into a helicopter
and in splitting the bone you suddenly
realized you had this soft tissue on
your hands is that correct well it
wasn't quite that sudden he they had to
split the bone in the field as was
reported and when it got back to the lab
and carry on so began preparing it she
reserved some of the fragments for
chemical analyses and so it was treated
slightly different than most dinosaur
bone is in the field it's not amazing to
find this kind of soft tissue in a
fossil this old and what can the soft
tissue really tell us well it is it's
very amazing it's utterly shocking
actually because it flies in the face of
everything that we understand about how
tissues themselves degrade it's not
something that any one of us could ever
predict or hope for and I think that
it's important to remember that we we
don't know for sure what it still is it
looks like blood vessels and it looks
like bone matrix and it certainly looks
like cells and it acts like cells but we
haven't done the chemical analysis that
let us say what it is for sure professor
a word comes to us that the capillary
structure or something that you've
observed is actually very similar to
that of an ostrich and I'm wondering is
this add fuel to the idea that the
dinosaurs and birds were in fact related
well potentially yes realized that the
blood vessels in
in your bone look just exactly the same
as well vessels at the level that we
reported in the paper all kind of look
the same
it's the molecular constituents that
differ from one animal to another from
animals to humans so the potential is
there to really tell some differences
but for right now that's not something
that we can address how big a t-rex are
we talking about here professor this one
was quite a small t-rex relative to say
sue that's on display in Chicago it's it
was significantly smaller but it was
also significantly older and if I'm
remembering what jack told me correctly
it is the first appearance of
Tyrannosaurus Rex is so therefore it's
the geologically it's the oldest t-rex
on record
would it have wanted to eat us Maris and
went bald a carnivore you know probably
that would be my guess now it's
impossible to clone from this kind of
tissue or we were looking at a me where
Ron and I were sort of making fun here
of a real-life Jurassic Park but is that
possible no I think every all of the
obstacles that stand in the way between
us and cloning a dinosaur getting that
getting the DNA from the dinosaur is
actually probably going to be the
easiest and that's not something we're
anywhere close to doing so once once you
get the DNA it will be fragmented and
chewed up into little tiny pieces and so
you'd have to figure out how to put all
those pieces together and then you have
to figure out exactly what order to put
them in then you'd have to figure out
how many chromosomes that dinosaur had
and make sure that all of the genes are
arranged correctly on the chromosomes
and that's just for starters
well you've anticipated my next question
and let's assume that you can do all of
that sort of thing what might you learn
from dinosaur DNA well you know I think
it's it's really exciting to learn
things like you guys have probably heard
of the idea of molecular clocks which is
a way of taking particular fragments of
DNA and comparing them across taxa to
get an idea of how quickly DNA might
mutate or change now we have the
opportunity to do that with something
that's actually anchored in the fossil
record so that's one potential really
exciting thing that might come of this
and one of the exciting things about
this discovery correct me if I'm wrong
is the fact that this stuff was
fossilized as it was of 70 million years
old you don't expect to find soft tissue
not at all no it's it without really
shocking so yet they're sort of rewrite
the book as far as fossilization goes I
assume well that's that's the exciting
part for me I've always been very
intrigued by how how things changed and
going from a living being to part of the
rock record and like I said a lot of our
science doesn't allow for this all of
the chemistry and all of the molecular
breakdown experiments that we've done
don't allow for this so if this material
turns out to be actual remnants of the
dinosaur then yes I think we will have
to do some certainly rethinking of some
of the basics of the model of
fossilization you know Mary Mary when I
was reading about this story I was
amazed that in some of the capillaries
when you went to to pull them they
snapped right back are you amazed at the
quality of these remains absolutely
seven million years old huh it's it just
doesn't seem possible but yes you can
actually take the vessels and they do
have internal components and so you can
take a probe and kind of squeeze those
things out into solution and of the
vessels are fine it's just I can't
explain it to be honest I'm very cool
well professor Mary Schweitzer
congratulations and thank you very much
for stopping by thank you so much